when we first announced this new
department being established the various
elements of that new department was
scattered amongst eight or nine
different buildings in different parts
of Douglas many of them were working in
departments and have in fact never had
contact with people in the other revenue
departments before I think the specific
role is to provide an initial and single
point of contact for would-be investors
the advantage of the Department of
Economic Development is that on the
single ministry there is now a one-stop
shop and it includes not just areas of
activity as diverse as tourism financial
services manufacturing etc you can
contact us in respect of issues relating
to work permits training and other
employment issues
well the common thread is that that
message that the Isle of Man is a good
place to do business many of the the
sectors which we now represent have a
natural linkage anyway for example a
strong tourist industry is very
important to underpin the services which
are provided for financial services
financial services need good hotels good
restaurants good air links to the island
so one supports the other inclusive
efficiencies for the department we're
now going to be able to work much more
closely together and identify synergies
across the different sectors so for
example somebody who has an aircraft
registered here might will offer as
potential as a high net worth individual
to attract them for potential investment
in the island as well and because we're
now all working much more closely
together and able to treat that customer
as a whole it will be a more effective
approach particularly from the customers
point of view only director of the
business development agency so I head up
the agency which has been created to
bring together all the the main revenue
earning areas of the economy so that's
financial services tourism manufacturing
ebusiness he gaming space commerce film
and media we've looked at other models
which have developed in other
jurisdictions and we felt that the the
agency model was a good model to follow
of the people we brought together have
specialist skills in specialist sectors
however we also feel that there's a lot
of cross-sectoral work which we need to
start encouraging more of so again part
of the rationale is to get people
working together in cross-sectoral teams
working together on and common projects
becoming chief executive and economic
development I've been very encouraged by
the role of the Chamber of Commerce the
new chief executive Mike Hennessy is
very proactive they've recently moved to
quite prestigious new headquarters and
we see an opportunity to really build
upon what always has been a good
relationship with the chain of what I
see is that the new department is a step
forward in its own right why do I say
that well it's gathered together there
is part of industries that were possibly
a little bit disparate in that in the
past and it's now easier to today's and
work with economic development I think
improved communications with the private
sector is going to be a key feature of
the new department and we've already
taken steps to build upon the excellent
relationship that we have between
government and the private sector
actually say that the incubators
probably in ones that one of the
greatest exponents of that type of
partnership between public and private
sector and the incubators operated by
capital selects a private sector company
and it's funded by the Isle of Man
government but it's not just about
funding it's about collaboration so we
work very closely with the business
development managers across the
department of economic development so we
give our clients all the access they
need and you in turn the department
helps us by making sure that we're
progressing those clients and getting
the businesses to help so it's very
collaborative a very important element
of the strategy will be working closely
with the businesses we have helping them
to grow helping them to find new markets
working together with them in
partnership so it'll be a twin track
approach bring new businesses in but
also enhance and preserve what we have
already clearly we recognize that
finance issues to the fore but we've got
some important sectors here and we are
quite a diverse economy I've lived in
Jersey were certainly more diverse than
than jersey is take for instance
manufacturing where we have a very
strong committee that works closely with
government to make sure that the
possible environment is on the Isle of
Man for them to do their business well
so we're not exposed as exposed to
finance as other countries it still
remains a really important element but
the nature of finance on the and
exchanging our financial services sector
is moving far more into supporting of
other sectors key activities being how
banking supports things like shipping
registry how things like a business is
supported by the banking sector and also
places like insurance and insurance
supporting everything from space through
to new risk management finance is
definitely developing on the island so
we're looking forward to taking that
finance sector and moving to a new world
with it if you look at the Isle of Man
in comparison with our competitors it is
the single thing that defines us is
differently to our competitors have
private sector and public sector work
together particularly access to
political matters the access to
regulators actually is a unique selling
point for the island and if anything
economic development and the Defiant
want to focus on this even more for the
future we really see this handshake with
the private sector as critical to the
future success of the island we believe
that the freedom to flourish remains an
extremely well thought out strap line
for the Isle of Man and certainly one
that we are reinvigorating and using
wherever possible we think it does
epitomize what the Isle of Man can offer
in so matures the opportunity for
organizations to come become a part of
island life and to receive the support
of the government and other business
associations that are here on the island
is very important the agreement now is
being spelled out very clearly what we
expect from the staff what our targets
are it will be far more focused more
closely monitor i think and coordinated
into the future so that everybody will
be under no illusion as to what is
expected of them what the targets are
those targets will be measurable and we
will be perhaps discarding some old ways
of doing business and looking for new
ways as well which in itself is both a
challenge but also an opportunity for
many people to use their creative
abilities
to contribute to what is undoubtedly has
to be a team effort government pulling
together to generate new economic
activity to continue the success at the
ala banners had everybody as part of
that team everybody has a role to play
to stimulate further success in the
future and I believe this new
arrangement will benefit everybody at
the end of the baby